The Joe Rogan experience, you know, I, a story about,
I had a teaching tool that had to do with something I pulled off in Hollywood
for my kids, and I'm big on delayed gratification. Um,
and you know, after I won the Oscar for best actor, my kids are like, well,
what'd you get the trophy for? I said,
well, you remember a year and a half ago we were in new Orleans.
Papa would go away. You wake up in the morning.
I was already at work and I'd come home and have dinner with y'all and tuck in
and you wake up the next morning I was gone again. And remember, you said,
I looked like a giraffe because I was so skinny and like, yeah. And I go, well,
what I was doing for those 30 days when I was gone all day a
year and a half later, somebody said,
deemed that excellent work. And they gave me a trophy for that work,
what I did a year and a half ago. And I remember I saw him click.
They were like, oh, oh, our future is a compounding interest.
You know what I mean? And ask them, oh, there you can build,
you can do something today and get rewarded tomorrow. Um, and it was,
it was an example that worked for them. Um,
and understanding, you know, that you can, you can get,
you can invest and make choices to engineer more ROI.
Yeah. Yeah. I know that was a milestone for you.
And obviously you won the Oscar for it,
but there's something about these physical transformation roles. When,
when an actor does something where you realize like, they're,
they're literally torturing themselves. I mean, when you, what did, how,
what did you get down to? How much did you weigh?
I weighed 1 35 and look, you know, this, I was not torturing myself.
I was militant. The hardest part is making the choice.
It was my responsibility.
If I looked like I do now playing Ron Woodriff in Dallas buyers club,
you are out of the movie, the first frame, all. He doesn't,
he's not staged for HIV, your mouth. What's my job. I had to lose the weight.
Once I made my mind up, I did the smart thing. I gave myself five months.
I got on a diet or I'd have my tapioca pudding or whatever,
three eggs in the egg, whites in the morning, five ounces of fish,
a cup of vegetables for lunch,
five and physical of vegetables for dinner as much wine as I wanted to drink.
And I lost 2.5 pounds a week, like clockwork, no exercise.
As much wine as you wanted to drink much as a one. How does,
what kind of diet is this?
It worked too,
and it didn't matter if I was going to the treadmill and burning 2000
calories a day or not 2.5 pounds a week clockwork.
And what happened during that time?
And this is another reason that I really didn't torture myself when people say,
oh my gosh, this has been so hard. I was like, no. What I learned from it that,
that the body's more resilient than we give it credit for I,
the power I lost in the neck down equally or more so sublimated to the neck
up, I was, so my mental game was so acute and so on.
I was clinically smart.
It didn't matter if I drank my wine till one in the morning at 4:30 AM,
no alarm clock bang. I was up every morning,
had incredible amount of mental energy. I had no leverage from my neck down.
I mean, my knees, I had no insulation anywhere. You know,
my body would hurt when I try to run 10 feet. But from here up,
there's some things I actually miss about it.
What do you think? What, what was the process like?
Why did your brain work better when you were starving yourself?
I think because it wasn't relying on, I think on a cellular level,
I felt my body going, Hey, these are baseball term.
You got people over there on the bench, in the dugout.
Then you got people out in the field that are, you know, sitting in the, uh,
in the, in the bullpen, not working out on a cellular level,
cellularly my sales and they were in the dugout.
And over there in the bullpen had to get up and go, whoa,
we're not getting fed what we used to get fed. We gotta, we gotta exercise here.
We gotta come to hut hut. Um, because the,
my body's not getting, we're not getting what we used to get. Um,
we're not placated by what we used to get our installations gone. Our, our,
what we rely on on is gone, what we used to rely on is gone.
So I think my whole body woke up and my brain got really
super, super sharp on that as well.
So I think it was the going without the there's a bit of a, um,
it was what I went without that sharpened up and made my brain on a cellular
level, much more hungry.
W what do you weigh? Normally?
180 8. Jesus.
Christ. So you lost 50 pounds. Yeah.
There's roles where guys do this,
where it defines their career in some way, Robert de Niro,
when he gained weight for raging bull, uh, Christian bale, when he did, uh,
the machinist. Yeah. Yeah. Th there's these,
these roles where a guy or a woman just transform Charlise
neuron. When she played monster, they, they transform their body.
And this it's like, it's a different level of commitment.
And when you entered into that film,
it was this the first time that you'd ever had to do that.
Yeah. First time I ever had to do it.
I mean, you, you got jacked for that. Uh, well,
I don't know how Jack do you wear before for that dragon movie? I'm sorry.
I forget the name of rain and fire. I love that movie.
That was my favorite and God, I miss fans. And it was a great movie.
Talk about a guy who was about no. Well, that was a sobering character. I,
I miss that guy. Yeah.
It was a fun character. But you were jacked in that movie.
Were you Jack normally, or did you have to get Jack for that movie?
I got more jacked for that logo, our family, my dad, we, we come from a, um,
our anatomy and the McConnell Hayes had big tricep. My dad,
you see your loved it. I'd be sitting there as a kid. Um,
and my dad was a big guy, 6, 4, 2 65, played Kentucky in a bear.
Bryant got drafted by the green Packers. He was a big bear of a man.
And he comes in the living room one night and I'm in front of the TV watching my
favorite show, incredible Hawk. And there's correct.
And I'm like standing in front of the TV, doing all this. He goes more,
what you doing? I was like, dad, look at it, man. I mean,
it's got these baseball sized biceps, look at him. Wow. And he goes, ah,
he takes off his shirt and he goes, let me tell you something, son.
He goes that right there and pull the bus up. He goes, that's nice.
Makes the girl scream. You know, it's for show.
He goes that right there he goes, that's the work muscle.
That's the one that puts the roof over our head as for dough
showing dough, the tie steps for dough. So I had big triceps.
So when I went and worked out and if I take a little bit of creatine,
my triceps go bananas.
So that was a minor transformation. It wasn't that difficult.
No, I would do. It was, it was minor. It was a lot, a lot of boxing. And, uh,
um, and, and, and just some nice, you know, throwing some weight around.
You just got fit, but for Dallas buyers club.
Yeah. Well,
I tried to stay within 10 pounds of striking way to whatever I need to do for
the role.
W was it hard to make the decision to do that for Dallas buyers club though?
Because that was a giant transformation. I mean.
It, wasn't hard. I was looking for something to be all consumed with something,
to be obsessed with a singular obsession. This is my job.
So my life revolved around that my wife made me meals chose me.
I didn't go to pizza hut and say, no, thank you. The pizza I'll have the salad.
I did not even put myself in front of temptations. I, I was a hermit.
I stayed in my,
my wife made me the meals and I studied and wrote and created the character
all day long. And I'd never got tired of that. So my world was,
I was in a bubble.
I just put myself in a bubble for five and a half months and that commitment to
put myself on that island to know that this is it's good to have this singular
obsession. You, you cannot go far enough McConaughey. That was,
there's a freedom in that. There's a freedom. I've always found them being,
having, having a character that can commit that much to.
Can not go far enough though. That was your thought process.
Yeah. I knew when I got down to 1 35, I was like, whoa, okay, that's good.
And mind you, I will tell you this. When I started to eat more at 1 35 to say,
let's slow this train down and quit losing weight.
My body had already got the message and had its blinders on that were going
south and it kept going south.
So that was a bit scary because I kept losing the way because my body had gotten
it already gotten in the, in the rhythm of losing weight. And like I said,
it turned a blind eye on getting any more food.
So there was a tough transition there for about two weeks to get my weight,
to balance out again and say, let's just hold at 1 35. So.
You dropped below 1 35 at one in time.
Just went below with 1 35, got down about 1 32, and then brought it back up.
Now,
how long did it take for you to physically recover from something like that,
where you're back to normal.
And I'm still recovering really?
Cause I thought that I thought that when I saw you in that film, I told my wife,
I remember saying this, like,
this is going to take a long time for him to bounce back because I know how hard
it is for guys to cut weight for fights.
And I know a lot of guys that have really depleted their body doing that.
And when I saw you that God and skinny, I was like, he's eating his body.
Your body ate itself. Music is the only way.
Yeah, I look, I came back and I did true detective after that.
And I got on true detective. I got to about 1 67 and held,
and I loved that weight as well.
Cause I had a little more leverage at a little more athletic ability.
I have more insulation around my joint,
but I was still pretty stripped and ripped.
I'm slowly coming back from that. I did learn this.
I had to come back very slowly cause I had heard stories about people that go,
well, now I'm back now, I'm going to gain weight.
I can eat as much as I want and that you can,
you can grow back and look deformed. You can, your features can come back.
If you rush it, they can come back in odd ways.
So I very slowly put the weight back on.
I then did a role a few years ago,
I guess it was about 4, 3, 3 years after that was fired though,
where I put on 47 pounds. So I was two 20. What was that?
A lot more gold. It's called gold.
Just a hell of a lot more fun to put that weight on and to take it off where I
was just cheeseburger king. Um,
and my family loved me in that role cause I was captain fun. I was yes.
To everything milkshake for breakfast. You got it. Let's go. Now. That was,
I've never talked about at that time. I was still mentally sharp,
not as sharp as I was when I was down at 1 35,
but at two 20 libido was through the roof.
I couldn't get, I couldn't catch a cold.
If I swam in the canals of Amsterdam man,
I was like the abominable snowman. I was insulated, um,
and had great energy. Um, during that time now coming back from that,
I still got a couple of things on my back here around the waist. I'm like,
where'd that come by?
That that came up with that role in gold and it what's that still doing,
hanging around. Um, you know,
so I did have to come back slowly. Um,
but I will say this, you know, 180 8
since then. That's my fight. And wait,
before I look a little different than the 180 8 before then,
before Dallas buyers club, it's a different one, ADA. So.
It did take a physical toll.
Sure. I would say, you know, even, you know,
neck and things like that, you know, neck and, and you know,
bone structure is the same, but where,
and now how much of this is just getting older too and having less bad sales.
I'm not sure. Um, but yeah, it, it, it didn't hurt.
Like I said, I think I stretched my body. I noticed when, you know,
when I got down to that weight at 1 35, if I tried to sprint 10,
10 yards and I just, my knees would buckle. I had no insulation. My knees hurt.
Yeah. I watched it again recently just to kind of get it into my head.
And that's what I was thinking like,
this is going to take a while to bounce back from like,
I almost forgot how gaunt you got it. It was,
it was striking episodes of the Joe Rogan experience are now free
on Spotify. That's right.
They're free from September 1st is December 1st.
They're going to be available everywhere,
but after December 1st they will only be available on Spotify,
but they will be free. That includes the video. The video will also be there.
It'll also be free. That's all we're asking. Just go download Spotify much.
Buh-bye.